Now we're going to do a little
descriptive statistics.
First, let's look at Python
documentation for a moment.
I'm going to go to this website.
Notice that it brought up 3.5.1.
When you do this,
it might bring up a different version
because it's going to bring
up the latest version.
Now, I'm using 3.4 and its table saying,
I'm going to click on that.
That 3.5 is in development.
At this point and time.
Now look up statistics and that search
produced a whole batch of things.
Statistics as a library
module is right here.
And it's in Lib/statistics.py.
And we're going to look
at several functions.
Mean, median, mode,
standard deviation, and variance.
Let me click through on one of those.
So here's the mean, you can give it a list
and it'll compute the mean of the list.
You can give it a list of reals and
it'll compute the mean of that.
You go back to Spider you
can get to the same place I
type in Python documentation,
click on index,
statistics, and you see the same page.
Mean, median, mode,
standard deviation, and variance.
So let's define some lists so
that we can do the statistics on them.
I'm also going to import the statistics
library so that we can use it.
Now I'm going to compute
the mean of this N list.
There it is.
That's adding up the values in N list and
dividing it by the number
values which is seven.
We can do the same thing for
the real list.
We're going to add up all these numbers
and divide by seven to get that.
Now lets look at This in list again.
And I'm going to print out
a sorted version of it.
Now the median,
is supposed to be the middle value.
From the sorted version,
we can find the middle value is five.
Smaller three larger.
Now I have another list, endless even.
This has an odd number, so
there is a middle value.
nlist even has a little bit
more complication than that.
There are two middle values,
three smaller, three larger than the two.
What the median function does
is it averages those two
middle values and
we terms that as the median.
With our list we have the same
kind of situation there
have 3.14 as three 3 larger and 3 smaller.
So, that's the median.
And that's what Python finds.
Now I have another r list and
it has two values in the middle,
three smaller, three larger and
what does Python do with that?
It takes the average of
those two in the middle and
returns that as the median, same way.
Now let's define another list,
mlist, now I want to print mlist and
a sorted version of it.
If you'll notice three occurs
more times than any other.
And that makes it the mode.
The mode is the value
that occurs most often.
Now we have standard deviation.
Then we have variance.
You can look those up in the statistics
book if you're not familiar with it.
The standard deviation is
a square root of the variance and
they're both measures of how spread
out the data is about the mean.
Now, here are three more functions.
Maximum, minimum, and sum.
Defining another in-list here,
the maximum of this is 106.
Found that using max.
Then, we'll find the minimum of this list,
which is minus 4.
And the sum of the list is sum of n list.
There it is.
Now, let's write some functions that make
use of these descriptive statistics.
First of all,
I'm going to generate a list, stat_list.
Stat_list has 100 random
reals between 5000 and 6000.
How do we get that?
Well, random.random produces a random
number between zero and one.
And we have to manage to convert that to
random numbers from five to six thousand.
One of the things that we can
do is multiply it by thousand,
then we have a random
number between zero and
a thousand Clinical add 5000 to that,
we have a random number between five and
six thousand.
So this is how we wide up with
a number between five and
six thousand that's pseudo random.
And we going to append
that to the start list.
We are going to that 100 times.
So if I type stat list,
see there are a lot of numbers.
That list is a list that I'm just
defining, this small list of integers.
Now, I can compute the stats
on these using my stats.
Now what this does is it imports
the statistics then it prints the mean and
uses statistics.mean to do it.
Computes the median, computes the mode,
computes the standard deviation and
completes the variance.
I wanted to try that out.
Add list.
Look what's happened here.
It crashed.
It did manage to compute the mean and
median and
print those out before it crashed.
But on the mode, It ran into trouble.
And ultimately after it crashed
it gives you an error message.
No unique mode found 100
equal to common values.
Well if you've got real numbers
between five and six thousand, with
only 100 of them the chances of two of
them coming out to be the same are slim.
So, What has happened here is that
that error occurred in this module,
statistics.py, the library
in fact line 434.
And that's where we go the error message.
But that was, we wound up in
that place by calling statistics
dot node and we wind up calling statistics
dot node because we ran our function.
So there's a trace down through the series
of calls that made this error happen.
The main problem is from our programmers
point of view is statistics.mode failed.
Now, what I want to do is correct that.
I'm not going to keep it
from having the error.
What I'm going to do is
keep program from crashing.
And this is the way you do it in Python.
You have a tri-accept pair of statements.
We try and then we are trying to
do the same statement that failed.
If it fails, if it's a statistic error,
we are going to
store that error in e and
we are going to print mode error and
e the mode was where had
the promise saying mode error.
If this works just fine
the exception doesn't get executed.
In either case we go on
to the next statement.
We don't crash.
Lets actually keep that and
see that that happens.
See?
No crash, but we do get that
same error message at the end.
Now let's try another function
that involves using a try and
accept statement.
This function, as you input a number then
its going to print what type that is.
Actually inputs are always string so
it's always going to print string.
Okay, we're going to try
to convert that number,
we're going to try to convert that
number to float and print it.
If that fails we gotta
grab that exception.
Stored in e and print the exception was e.
But we won't crash.
Here is test_try().
Enter a number.
Now, what it's supposed to do is
convert a number like 5 to 5.0.
You can see, that it actually
printed the type, was a string.
And it converted to five.
We try something else, 3.14,
the same thing happens.
It's a string, converts it to 3.14,
which It was to begin with
except that it was a string.
Wonder where it failed.
Let's suppose we enter some letters?
It couldn't convert that.
What if we just typed and
put an extra period in the number?
Can't convert that.
But notice that it never crashes.
It tries, and then it grabs the exception
and prints the exception out.
Could not convert string to float.
Now, here's an exercise.
I want you to run this
code on your machine,
it creates a list of temperatures.
These are farenheit
temperatures between 20 and 95.
And we built that by
using a random seat so
it comes out to be the same for everybody.
We start with an empty list, we go
through this loop 20 times, we generate
a random integer in this range, and
append it onto that list and there we are.
And here is your starter
function if you want.
When you finish it, it should print
the list, the mean, the median,
the standard deviation and the variance.
Here is my solution.
There.
What it does is it prints
the temperature list.
It prints the statistics mean,
the statistics median,
the statistics standard deviation,
and the statistics variance.
I stayed away from mode on this version.
Now, I want you to try and
soup that up to add mode.
There won't be a mode on this.
So you should get an error.
Here's a run of my solution.
You add the necessary code to
your solution, to get this.
Here is my solution.
No unique mode found for equal,
notice the program did not crash.
What we did was we added a track
steps statement to the end.
We try to print the mode.
Just like we did for all the others we
use mode as setup variance for example.
And if there is an exception we
store it the exception in e and
then print mode error e.
The mode error was no
unique mode four equal to